#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Concepts in PUJ MD
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Docking Steps:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
1.
 Get the complex (CPLX) coordinates (i.e.
 from the PDB).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
2.
 Clean the complex (delete all the water and the solvent molecules and all
 noninteracting ions).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
3.
 Add the missing hydrogens/side chain atoms and minimized the complex (AMBER
 Program).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
4.
 Clean the minimized complex (delete all the water and the solvent molecules
 and all non-interacting ions).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
5.
 Separate the minimized CPLX in macromolecule (LOCK) and ligand (KEY).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
6.
 Prepare the docking suitable files for LOCK and KEY (pdbqt files).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
7.
 Prepare all the needing files for docking (grid parameter file, map files,
 docking parameter files).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
8.
 Run the docking.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
9.
 Analyze the docking results.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Docking Protocols:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
[Olotu2018]: 
\series default
X-ray crystal structures of Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL were retrieved from the Protein
 Data Bank with identities (PDB IDs) 4MAN and 4QVX respectively [18, 48],
 while EGCG was retrieved from the PubChem database (CID 65064).
 Using UCSF Chimera [49], co-crystallized molecules were removed from the
 crystal structures including crystal waters since they were observed not
 to be involved in the binding of ligands to the hydrophobic grooves of
 both proteins.
 Missing residues were added with the aid ofMODELLER, a structural remodeling
 tool [50].
 Molecular geometry of the retrieved phytochemical was optimized on Avogadro
 1.2.0, using a steepest descent algorithm and UFF force field [51].
 This was followed by molecular docking where EGCG was docked separately
 into the hydrophobic grooves of Bcl2 and Bcl-xL using Autodock Vina [52].
 These regions were defined according to the coordinates obtained from the
 crystal structures of both enzymes containing BH3 mimetics [18, 53].
 The best pose with the highest negative binding energy was identified and
 the docked complexes were obtained using UCSF Chimera.
 Molecular dynamics simulations of the complexes were carried out according
 to the in-house protocols used in our previous studies [54–56].
 These entail the use of the Graphic Processor Unit (GPU) version of AMBER14
 software package coupled with integrated modules and FF14SB force field
 [57, 58].
 The AMBER force field was used to define the protein systems while the
 LEAP module was used to generate parameter/topology files for the respective
 systems [58].
 The systems were explicitly solvated in an orthorhombic TIP3P box with
 a size of 10 Å for all constituent atoms and counter Na+ and Cl− ions were
 added for neutralization.
 Partial minimization of 2500 steps was carried out with a restraint potential
 of500 kcal/mol Å2, followed by full minimization of10,000 steps with no
 conjugate energy restraints.
 Harmonic restraints of 5 kcal/mol Å2 were used during the heating step,
 which occurred gradually from 0 to 300 K for 50 ps in a canonical ensemble
 (NVT) with the aid of a Langevin thermostat [59].
 The systems were equilibrated at a temperature of 300 K, with a 2-fs time
 step in an NPT ensemble for 1000 ps without any restraint while the pressure
 was maintained at 1 bar using the Berendsen barostat [60].
 This was followed by an MD production run of 100 ns for each system, which
 involved the constriction of all atomic hydrogen bonds using the SHAKE
 algorithm [61].
 Resulting coordinates and trajectories were saved every 1 ps and analyzed
 using the CPPTRAJ and PTRJ modules in AMBER14 [62].
 Obtained data were plotted using the Microcal Origin software [63] while
 UCSF Chimera [49] was used for structural analysis and visualization.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Molecular Docking
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
In the field of molecular modeling, docking is a method which predicts the
 preferred orientation of one molecule to a second when a ligand and a target
 are bound to each other to form a stable complex (wikipedia.org).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Finding unknown ligand sites in a receptor with AutoLigand
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
AutoLigand is a tool used to identify and characterize ligand binding sites.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
To find unknown ligand sites, AutoLigand is run with a series of fill volume
 sizes and plotted as Total Energy/Volume vs.
 Volume.
 The sharp peak in figure 5 is the optimal size of the fill volume and was
 shown to fill the active site in the HIV protease (PDB: 1hps).
 The peak is due to the change in total energy of the fill volume as larger
 volumes are used.
 As more points are added, the affinity improves until an optimal fill is
 reached, then as more points are added, the volume is increased with less
 affinity points which reduces the overall affinity.
 The different colors in the plot show different regions of fill overlap.
 When small volumes are used, there are many posible binding sites.
 But, as larger fill volumes are used, the results collapse to a single
 best fill region (which is normally the active site).
 The best affinity of the active site of the HIV protease is X-shaped (see
 figure 1).
 The smaller fills in the black set (volumes 100 to 200) can only fill one
 of the legs of the X.
 As larger fills are used (cyan set, volumes 300 to 500), a second leg of
 the X is filled.
 Finally, the green set fills all four legs of the X-shape until an optimal
 volume of 1000 is reached.
 (
\begin_inset Flex URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

https://autodock.scripps.edu/resources/autoligand/
\end_layout

\end_inset

)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Structure Data Format (SDF) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
SDF is a chemical file formats to represent multiple chemical structure
 records and associated data fields.
 SDF was developed and published by Molecular Design Limited (MDL) and became
 the the most widely used standard for importing and exporting information
 on chemicals.
 (
\begin_inset Flex URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

http://biotech.fyicenter.com/resource/sdf_format.html
\end_layout

\end_inset

).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
General steps for preparing protein and ligand
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
\begin_inset Flex URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

https://sites.ualberta.ca/~pwinter/Molecular_Docking_Tutorial.pdf
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
B) For both the macromolecule and the ligand, you should always add polar
 hydrogens, compute Gasteiger charges and then you must merge the non-polar
 hydrogens.
 Polar hydrogens are hydrogens that are bonded to electronegative atoms
 like oxygen and nitrogen.
 Non-polar hydrogens are hydrogens bonded to carbon atoms.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
C) You need one AutoGrid map for every atom type in the ligand plus an electrost
atics map.
 E.g.: for ethanol, C2H5OH, you would need C, OA and HD maps plus an electrostatic
s 'e' map plus a desolvation 'd' map.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
D) The grid volume should be large enough to at least allow the ligand to
 rotate freely, even when the ligand is in its most fully extended conformation.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
\begin_inset Flex URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

http://www.csb.yale.edu/userguides/datamanip/dock/DOCK_4.0.1/html/Manual.9.html
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
Before you can dock a ligand, you will need atom types and charges for every
 atom in the ligand
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Section
Blind and site-specific docking
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
\begin_inset Flex URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

https://bioinformaticsreview.com/question/what-is-the-difference-between-the-blin
d-docking-and-binding-site-based-docking/
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Blind docking
\series default
 is done when we do not have any information about the catalytic sites/
 binding sites in a protein.
 It is generally done with the novel proteins.
 Also, the blind docking is used to find out the binding sites in a protein
 and you dock whole protein with your ligand, so your ligand can bind anywhere,
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Site-specific docking
\series default
 is done when you bind your molecule within a particular site and you know
 the binding sites of that protein already.
 In site-specific docking, you define the binding residues so that the ligand
 binds only within this specific pocket.
 Sometimes, the ligand does not show any interaction with the binding site,
 that depends on the nature of the ligand.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
AutoDock Affinity Maps:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
\begin_inset Flex URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7737998/
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
AutoDock represents the rigid part of the receptor using 3D rectilinear
 grids called affinity maps and computed by AutoGrid1.
 For a given receptor and a docking box, an affinity map is computed for
 each atom type present in the ligand to be docked, along with electrostatic
 and desolvation maps.
 These maps greatly reduce docking calculation runtimes as they allow the
 calculation of interactions between a ligand atom and the entire set of
 atoms in the receptor using trilinear interpolations in the maps.
 While it is possible to compute these maps on the fly, as is done in AutoDock
 Vina3, precomputing them presents several interesting advantages.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
In the affinity maps calculated by AutoGrid4, the regions covered by the
 receptor contain high frequency values ranging from small negative (i.e.,
 favorable affinity regions) to large positive values (i.e.
 inside the receptor core).
 The presence of numerous local minima in between receptor atoms (Fig 1,
 left panel) can hinder the optimization of a ligand that overlaps with
 the receptor, which happens frequently during the early stage of the automated
 docking process.
 We defined and implemented a protocol to replace these high frequency values
 inside the receptor by a gradient from the inside of the receptor toward
 its surface (Fig.
 1, right panel).
 The gradient guides ligands overlapping with the receptor toward its surface.
 The gradient is calculated for all maps except the electrostatic and desolvatio
n maps.
 Map values are only modified in regions inside the receptor, thus docked
 ligands that do not overlap with the receptor yield identical score with
 maps with gradients and with the original maps.
 The process for adding gradients is parallelized using OpenMP13.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
AutoDock Results Analysis:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
\begin_inset Flex URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

https://www.researchgate.net/post/Exact-procedure-for-autodock-result-analysis
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Sathiyamoorthy Subramaniyam:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
First, are you using Autodock 4.0 or autodock vina, because they're both
 completely different in terms of speed, execution and analytics.
 Assuming you are using the latter, Autodock Vina, it¡'s the simplest software
 for docking because the output you see in the --log option (also printed
 above) is telling you the pose number, the energy (the more negative the
 value, the better the interaction, which is assumed to be the dG), and
 then, RMSD's which are useless as they only tell you the structural difference
 between your first pose and the following poses when compared to the best
 one.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Ideally, one should trust that the first pose is always the best one (this
 is a milestone), and so, you must consider if your correct pose is the
 2nd or the 3rd.
 How many poses you need to consider in your analysis ?.
 Well, is another tricky question, but can be done using X-ray known inhibitors
 and re-dock them to your binding site and try to see if the software successful
ly reproduces the binding pose.
 If your x-ray known inhibitor matches with the first pose, then you only
 consider the first pose of every molecule.
 If your x-ray inhibitor matches with your 2nd pose, then, consider the
 first two poses of every molecule and so on.When doing that, you filter
 out a lot of raw data you won't need to process, and only focus on those
 poses where realistically, you may have a computational hit.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Afterwards, would be very recommended to re-score the filtered ligands with
 another software, preferentially with a force-field dependent scoring function.
 There are a lot of force-fields to be used (MMFF94, PFROSST...), what to use,
 is up to you.
 When applying a Force-Field scoring function, the energy value of dG of
 some pre-selected ligand will drop down very dramatically, then, you can
 reject those compounds if you want.
 Only those compounds where AutoDock vina and another scoring functions
 gives you good values, should be considered for further analysis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Additionally, you don't have to trust completely the docking prediction.
 You have to evaluate if the generated docked poses are realistic or not
 as Viachaslau Bernat pointed out (i.e, there are no positively or negatively
 charged groups in the nearby of neutral or aliphatic regions, if there
 is complementarity between your predicted poses and your binding site,
 if they poses you obtain are encompassing a known pharmacophoric point
 described in the literature, etc.).
 The protocol itself is an art, can NOT be extensively applied for every
 protein.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
If you have more computational resources, those poses of those ligand that
 look promising can be included in a higher-computer demanding approach,
 such is molecular dynamics, but this is another issue.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Section
Binding Affinity 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
https://www.malvernpanalytical.com/en/products/measurement-type/binding-affinity
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Binding affinity is the strength of the binding interaction between a single
 biomolecule (e.g.
 protein or DNA) to its ligand/binding partner (e.g.
 drug or inhibitor).
 Binding affinity is typically measured and reported by the equilibrium
 dissociation constant (KD), which is used to evaluate and rank order strengths
 of bimolecular interactions.
 The smaller the KD value, the greater the binding affinity of the ligand
 for its target.
 The larger the KD value, the more weakly the target molecule and ligand
 are attracted to and bind to one another.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Binding affinity is influenced by non-covalent intermolecular interactions
 such as hydrogen bonding, electrostatic interactions, hydrophobic and Van
 der Waals forces between the two molecules.
 In addition, binding affinity between a ligand and its target molecule
 may be affected by the presence of other molecules.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Equilibration
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Equilibrium molecular dynamics provides a constant distribution of properties,
 be it density, temperature or pressure, across a given part of the system
 so that the whole system acts in unison, i.e.
 if the temperature is too low, then it can be adjusted by multiplying all
 the temperature velocities in the system by the same multiplier.
 This is where the tunable properties in non-equilibrium molecular dynamics
 can provide a high degree of control to the system.
 When a system is not acting in an equilibrium manner, individual variables
 and localized areas can be changed by a defined value, and another area
 can be changed by a different amount if the system requires it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Running molecular dynamics simulations using GROMACS
\series default
 
\begin_inset Flex URL
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

https://training.galaxyproject.org/training-material/topics/computational-chemistr
y/tutorials/md-simulation-gromacs/tutorial.html#equilibration
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
At this point equilibration of the solvent around the solute (i.e.
 the protein) is necessary.
 This is performed in two stages: equilibration under an NVT ensemble, followed
 by an NPT ensemble.
 Use of the NVT ensemble entails maintaining constant number of particles,
 volume and temperature, while the NPT ensemble maintains constant number
 of particles, pressure and temperature.
 (The NVT ensemble is also known as the isothermal-isochoric ensemble, while
 the NPT ensemble is also known as the isothermal-isobaric ensemble).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
During the first equilibration step (NVT), the protein must be held in place
 while the solvent is allowed to move freely around it.
 This is achieved using the position restraint file we created in system
 setup.
 When we specify this restraint, protein movement is not totally forbidden,
 but is energetically punished.
 During the second NPT step, we remove the restraints.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\end_body
\end_document
